At Matthew 13, verse 52, Jesus said that every public instructor was like a man with a treasure
store filled with truths, old and new.
Well, we know that's true, and if it's true, it means that this audience are among the
most rich people in the entire world.
You have a large treasure store of truths, both old and new.
But here's the question, what will you do with your treasure store?
Now a Deuteronomy, chapter 29, and verse 29, Moses gave these words, he said,
the things concealed belong to Jehovah our God, but the things revealed belong to us and
to our descendants forever so that we may carry out all the words of this law.
Well, there's a fundamental truth there.
You see, the truth never solely belongs to us, but rather, it also belongs to our
descendants to all of our sons and daughters who are to come.
Well, that means that as men and women of faith, we have a clear responsibility to share,
to pass on the wonderful truths that we have come to know with the next generation.
Well, the Bible emphasizes this.
Let's read that what the Psalmist said in Psalm 78 and verse 3, Psalm 78, verse 3,
it says, the things we have heard and know, which our fathers have related to us, we will
not hide from their sons.
We will relate to the generation to come, the praiseworthy deeds of Jehovah and his strength,
the wonderful things that he has done.
Well now, this includes more than just the basic truths.
It also includes all of the wonderful things that we've been taught by other brothers
and sisters, all the experiences that we've had in experiencing the hand of Jehovah in
our own lives.
So Jehovah took the matter of passing this on to the next generation very seriously because
look at what it says in verse 5, it says he established a reminder in Jacob and set a
law in Israel.
He commanded our forefathers to make these things known to their children so that the next
generation, the children yet to be born might know them.
They in turn would relate them to their children.
Well, brothers and sisters, especially those of you who have so much wisdom and experience,
do you feel that responsibility to share what you have with the generation to come?
Well, if we get the sense of Deuteronomy 29, 29 and Psalm 78, well then we will do this.
We will share what we have with the next generation, but how do we do it?
Well, of course, this process begins with all of our parents.
And by their following, the command in Deuteronomy 6, verses 6 and 7, to teach their children as
they sit in the house, as they walk on the road when they lie down and when they get up.
But the process does not end with the Christian parents.
We also have a responsibility to teach and train young adults so that they can take on responsibility
in Jehovah's congregation.
Now the Bible is filled with examples of individuals who are wonderful trainers.
Maybe one who comes to mind right away is Moses.
It seems like in the Bible, whenever you see Moses, you see Joshua.
They're always together.
Can you imagine the wonderful training that Moses was able to impart to Joshua as they
work together for more than 40 years?
It's not only told Joshua, but he also showed him.
And by being with him, he was able to observe his fine example.
Well when the time was ready, when Moses was ready to hand over the responsibility, notice
what he says here in Deuteronomy 31 and verse 7.
He says, Moses then called Joshua and said to him before the eyes of all Israel, be courageous
and strong for you are the one who will bring this people into the land that Jehovah swore
to their forefathers to give to them and you will give it to them as an inheritance.
Jehovah is the one marching before you and he will continue with you.
He will neither desert you nor abandon you.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.
Well, can you imagine how Moses must have felt to say those words to this young man who
he had worked so hard all of these years with?
Well, that's not the only example that's in the scriptures.
What about Paul and Timothy?
We know that Timothy was probably in his late teens or early 20s when Paul met him at
Listera.
What did Paul do?
He took that young man along with him on his tours, going from congregation to congregation.
He put him in mind of his methods.
He taught him.
And as a result, Timothy came to be a solid, mature Christian man who was able to strengthen
the congregations of God's people.
Do you remember what Paul said about him in Philippians chapter 2?
It's quite a recommendation.
Philippians chapter 2 and verse 20.
Paul said, for I have no one else of a disposition like his who will genuinely care for your concerns.
What a tremendous recommendation.
But because Paul had invested that time into Timothy, he knew the fine qualities that
young man had.
Well, Paul not only wanted Timothy to take that training himself, but you'll recall that
in 2 Timothy chapter 2, he gave advice to Timothy as to what he was to do with all of that
fine training that he had received.
Timothy chapter 2 and verse 2, Paul said, and the things you heard from me that were
supported by many witnesses, these things in trust to faithful men who in turn will be
adequately qualified to teach others.
So that training would go on to future brothers and future generations of servants of Jehovah.
Paul invested training in a very young man and it paid off.
In our modern day, I think of brother Nathan Nor as an outstanding trainer.
When he became the president of the Watchtower Society in January of 1942, he was only 36
years old.
Now he could have thought, I'm so young, I have many, many years ahead of me.
To be able to care for matters and so there really isn't any need to train others.
But brother Nor did not have that disposition.
He was a trainer even at that young age.
He assigned brother Milton Henshel who was in his mid-twenties to be his secretary.
Brother Nor took brother Henshel with him on his travels all over the world to branches
and missionary homes to strengthen the brothers.
He had him right by his side at major conventions, not just telling him, but showing him how to
take the lead.
And brother Henshel absorbed that training.
By 1947, he was a member of the Board of Directors of the Watchtower Society, only 27 years
old, and he went on to serve as a member of the governing body.
Brother Nor trained other young brothers like Don Adams.
This photo that we're about to show was taken at a gathering on brother Adams 70th anniversary
in full-time service.
Now here you see other, a group of young men that brother Nor had trained, Robert Wallen,
Charles Mollahan, Davidson Claire, and Don Adams.
All of these men were identified when they were very young and they worked together for
more than 50 years faithfully.
Jehovah helped brother Nor to choose very well.
But it didn't end there.
Brother Nor also appointed well-qualified young brothers who were gillian graduates to
assignments with great responsibility.
For example, brother Kenneth Little was assigned to be the branch servant in Canada when he
was 34 years old.
Brother Denton Hopkinson was assigned as the branch servant in the Philippines when he
was 33 years old.
And brother Richard Kelsey was assigned as the branch servant in Germany when he was 38.
When appointed, brother Kelsey said to brother Nor, but I'm only 38.
And brother Nor said, well, yeah, that's about the age I was when I became president.
Brother Nor once again had chosen well.
Those last three brothers are all still serving on the branch committees in their respective
lands and are all members of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania who
were tied in today for this meeting.
Isn't that wonderful?
But there's a lesson here, brothers.
There's a lesson.
Brother Nor expressed confidence in humble young brothers.
He allowed them to take on responsibility and that proved to be a wonderful blessing for
Jehovah's people.
Well, what's the lesson then for elders, for circuit overseers, for branch committee
members, really, for all mature brothers in the congregation?
We must actively be training and teaching the next generation of ministerial servants,
the next generation of elders, the next generation of circuit overseers.
And we must take this responsibility seriously because the truth belongs not just to us.
It also belongs to our sons, to our descendants.
We must pass on the truth, the wisdom, the experience that we have in our treasure store to these
next Joshua's, these next Timothy's that Jehovah will raise up.
But now that's the role of the trainers.
What is the role of you younger brothers who are listening to this program?
Well, it's your responsibility to work hard to meet the scriptural qualifications for ministerial
servants and later for elders.
Seek out training.
Ask for advice.
Ask for counsel.
Be eager to learn from older brothers who are rich in wisdom and experience.
Now to help you grow, those brothers may give you some counsel.
They may even correct you from time to time.
Will you love them for doing that?
Like Jacob who wrestled with an angel to receive a blessing, you too may have to wrestle.
You may have to struggle at times to get that blessing, to reach that goal.
But if you work hard and if you look to Jehovah for his help, you will grow spiritually.
You will draw close to him and who knows what responsibilities may come to you.
What is the governing body doing to support efforts to train young brothers?
Well in January of this year, the governing body requested all bodies of elders worldwide
to give priority to helping younger brothers grow in their relationship with Jehovah and
to qualify for congregation responsibilities.
Elders and circuit overseers were reminded that young brothers who apply themselves may
qualify as ministerial servants in their late teens.
And that an exceptional ministerial servant who has gained experience in shepherding and
teaching could serve as an elder in his early twenties.
Now here's another arrangement that we have not publicly announced before, but we will today.
Circuit overseers have also been informed that they may invite qualified young brothers
between the ages of 21 and 23 to apply to attend the school for kingdom evangelizers.
Please don't all call your circuit overseer at once.
But the efforts do not end there.
Jehovah willing, in January 2023, the school for kingdom evangelizers will again begin
functioning in person worldwide.
And as we resume in person regional conventions, just imagine the joy that we'll have in seeing
younger brothers get up and give their first talk at a regional convention.
Won't that be wonderful?
Are you looking forward to it?
But the governing body has another new initiative.
Governing body members will now have the possibility to take a younger brother along
with them when they make shepherding visits to the branches.
And appointed governing body helpers, who are headquarters representatives, will also
be allowed to take a younger brother with them when they make their branch visits.
These arrangements will allow many brothers to receive additional training directly from
governing body members and helpers.
Well what have we discussed in this brief talk?
Jehovah has allowed us to know the truth.
He's allowed us to be trained.
He's allowed us to gain wisdom and experience from other experienced brothers and sisters.
What now is our responsibility?
Well, let's read it in Psalm 71 because the psalmist put it so beautifully here, Psalm 71
and verse 17, Oh God, you have taught me from my youth.
And until now, I keep declaring your wonderful works.
Even when I am old and gray, oh God, do not abandon me.
Let me tell the next generation about your power and about your mightiness to all those
who are to come.
Dear brothers, please let us work hard to share the wonderful truths, the experience,
the wisdom that we have gained with the generation to come.